<style type="text/css">.rendered-markdown{font-size:14px} .rendered-markdown>*:first-child{margin-top:0!important} .rendered-markdown>*:last-child{margin-bottom:0!important} .rendered-markdown a{text-decoration:underline;color:#b75246} .rendered-markdown a:hover{color:#f36050} .rendered-markdown h1, .rendered-markdown h2, .rendered-markdown h3, .rendered-markdown h4, .rendered-markdown h5, .rendered-markdown h6{margin:24px 0 10px;padding:0;font-weight:bold;-webkit-font-smoothing:antialiased;cursor:text;position:relative} .rendered-markdown h1 tt, .rendered-markdown h1 code, .rendered-markdown h2 tt, .rendered-markdown h2 code, .rendered-markdown h3 tt, .rendered-markdown h3 code, .rendered-markdown h4 tt, .rendered-markdown h4 code, .rendered-markdown h5 tt, .rendered-markdown h5 code, .rendered-markdown h6 tt, .rendered-markdown h6 code{font-size:inherit} .rendered-markdown h1{font-size:28px;color:#000} .rendered-markdown h2{font-size:22px;border-bottom:1px solid #ccc;color:#000} .rendered-markdown h3{font-size:18px} .rendered-markdown h4{font-size:16px} .rendered-markdown h5{font-size:14px} .rendered-markdown h6{color:#777;font-size:14px} .rendered-markdown p, .rendered-markdown blockquote, .rendered-markdown ul, .rendered-markdown ol, .rendered-markdown dl, .rendered-markdown table, .rendered-markdown pre{margin:15px 0} .rendered-markdown hr{border:0 none;color:#ccc;height:4px;padding:0} .rendered-markdown>h2:first-child, .rendered-markdown>h1:first-child, .rendered-markdown>h1:first-child+h2, .rendered-markdown>h3:first-child, .rendered-markdown>h4:first-child, .rendered-markdown>h5:first-child, .rendered-markdown>h6:first-child{margin-top:0;padding-top:0} .rendered-markdown a:first-child h1, .rendered-markdown a:first-child h2, .rendered-markdown a:first-child h3, .rendered-markdown a:first-child h4, .rendered-markdown a:first-child h5, .rendered-markdown a:first-child h6{margin-top:0;padding-top:0} .rendered-markdown h1+p, .rendered-markdown h2+p, .rendered-markdown h3+p, .rendered-markdown h4+p, .rendered-markdown h5+p, .rendered-markdown h6+p{margin-top:0} .rendered-markdown ul, .rendered-markdown ol{padding-left:30px} .rendered-markdown ul li>:first-child, .rendered-markdown ul li ul:first-of-type, .rendered-markdown ol li>:first-child, .rendered-markdown ol li ul:first-of-type{margin-top:0} .rendered-markdown ul ul, .rendered-markdown ul ol, .rendered-markdown ol ol, .rendered-markdown ol ul{margin-bottom:0} .rendered-markdown dl{padding:0} .rendered-markdown dl dt{font-size:14px;font-weight:bold;font-style:italic;padding:0;margin:15px 0 5px} .rendered-markdown dl dt:first-child{padding:0} .rendered-markdown dl dt>:first-child{margin-top:0} .rendered-markdown dl dt>:last-child{margin-bottom:0} .rendered-markdown dl dd{margin:0 0 15px;padding:0 15px} .rendered-markdown dl dd>:first-child{margin-top:0} .rendered-markdown dl dd>:last-child{margin-bottom:0} .rendered-markdown blockquote{border-left:4px solid #DDD;padding:0 15px;color:#777} .rendered-markdown blockquote>:first-child{margin-top:0} .rendered-markdown blockquote>:last-child{margin-bottom:0} .rendered-markdown table th{font-weight:bold} .rendered-markdown table th, .rendered-markdown table td{border:1px solid #ccc;padding:6px 13px} .rendered-markdown table tr{border-top:1px solid #ccc;background-color:#fff} .rendered-markdown table tr:nth-child(2n){background-color:#f8f8f8} .rendered-markdown img{max-width:100%;-moz-box-sizing:border-box;box-sizing:border-box} .rendered-markdown code, .rendered-markdown tt{margin:0 2px;padding:0 5px;border:1px solid #eaeaea;background-color:#f8f8f8;border-radius:3px} .rendered-markdown code{white-space:nowrap} .rendered-markdown pre>code{margin:0;padding:0;white-space:pre;border:0;background:transparent} .rendered-markdown .highlight pre, .rendered-markdown pre{background-color:#f8f8f8;border:1px solid #ccc;font-size:13px;line-height:19px;overflow:auto;padding:6px 10px;border-radius:3px} .rendered-markdown pre code, .rendered-markdown pre tt{margin:0;padding:0;background-color:transparent;border:0}</style>
<div class="rendered-markdown"><h1>Homework 1</h1>
<p>Please remember that to submit the assignment you must click Mark as Complete under the Education menu in the toolbar.</p>
<h2>Introduction to Interfaces</h2>
<p>Throughout this course, we will use interfaces to provide the requirements for the code you'll be required to write. An interface specifies a list of methods that any class implementing it must provide. In this assignment, we will provide you with an interface for each class you need to implement. This means that any class you write must have implementations of every method that its interface specifies, otherwise it won't compile!</p>
<p>For more detail on interfaces, see <a href="https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/concepts/interface.html">the Oracle documentation</a>.</p>
<h2>Problem 1 - 15 points</h2>
<p>Define a <code>Rectangle</code> class (in <code>Rectangle.java</code>) that implements <code>RectangleInterface</code>. In addition, you should implement the <code>Comparable</code> interface, such that <code>Rectangle</code> objects can be compared by their <strong>perimeter</strong>. That is, your class signature should be:</p>
<pre><code>public class Rectangle implements RectangleInterface, Comparable&lt;Rectangle&gt;
</code></pre>
<p>You must have this class signature for full credit.</p>
<h2>Problem 2 - 20 points</h2>
<p>Write a <code>GenericMethods</code> class (in <code>GenericMethods.java</code>) that implements <code>GenericMethodsInterface</code>.</p>
<p>There are two methods you must implement:</p>
<ul>
<li><code>linearSearch</code>: Iterate through the array linearly and search for a value equal (again, in the <code>Comparable</code> sense) to <code>x</code>. This must run in O(n) time. If the value is not found in the array, return -1. Else, return the index in the array where the value was found.</li>
<li><code>binarySearch</code>: Implement a <strong>recursive</strong> binary search to find a value equal to <code>x</code>. Hint: The public <code>binarySearch</code> method, itself, should not be recursive. The private helper method should be. This private helper method with additional parameters should be called from the public <code>binarySearch</code> method. This must run in O(log n) time. If the value is not found in the array, return -1. Else, return the index in the array where the value was found.</li>
</ul>
<p>To test your code, you might try creating a file with a main method that does the following:</p>
<ul>
<li>Build an array of <code>Rectangle</code> objects</li>
<li>Demonstrate <code>linearSearch</code> functionality on the array</li>
<li>Sort the array with <code>Arrays.sort</code> (remember, input to <code>binarySearch</code> must be sorted)</li>
<li>Demonstrate <code>binarySearch</code> functionality on the array</li>
</ul>
<p>This is <em>not</em> required, but will be useful if you're looking for ways to guarantee your implementation is correct.</p>
<p>Your <code>GenericMethods</code> class must implement the interface for full credit.</p>
<h2>Problem 3 - 15 points</h2>
<p>In a file called <code>BigO.java</code>, implement <code>BigOInterface</code> and write methods that have the following runtime requirements:</p>
<ul>
<li><code>cubic</code> must be O(n^3)</li>
<li><code>exp</code> must be O(2^n)</li>
<li><code>constant</code> must be O(1)</li>
</ul>
<p>Where n is an integer which is passed into the function. The methods can contain any code fragments of your choice. However, in order to receive any credit, the runtime requirements must be satisfied. As in the previous two problems, you must implement the interface to receive full credit.</p>
<p>In addition to writing the code fragments, we will explore their actual runtimes, to observe big-O in action in the real world. In a file called <code>Problem3.java</code> write a <code>main</code> method which runs the code with various values of <code>n</code> and measures their runtime. Then, discuss the results you observed briefly in a file called <code>Problem3.txt</code>.</p>
<p>To properly time code runtime in Java, we must disable compiler optimizations. We do this by running the code with the <code>-Xint</code> flag, for example: <code>java -Xint Problem3</code>. The easiest way to time your run is to wrap each fragment with the following code:</p>
<pre><code>long startTime = System.nanoTime();
// YOUR CODE HERE
long endTime = System.nanoTime();
</code></pre>
<p>The elapsed time is the difference between these two variables.</p>
<p>Note also that you may see slightly erratic results due to noise and memory allocation delays. This may be one of the factors you discuss in addressing outliers.</p>
</div>